.. include:: /Includes.rst.txt

.. _introduction:

============
Introduction
============

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :depth: 1
   :local:

.. _what-it-does:

What does it do?
================

This TYPO3 extension is an add-on to the `schema
<https://extensions.typo3.org/extension/schema>`_ extension. It provides
additional `schema.org <https://schema.org/>`_ pending terms:
`https://schema.org/docs/pending.home.html
<https://schema.org/docs/pending.home.html>`_.

.. note::
   The pending section is a staging area for work-in-progress terms which have
   yet to be accepted into the core vocabulary. Pending terms are subject to
   change and should be used with caution. An alternative to use this extension
   is to add the needed terms to the vocabulary by your own: :ref:`Extend the
   vocabulary <schema:extending-vocabulary>`. This way you have the types and
   properties under your control.

For more information about the schema extension have a look into the
:ref:`documentation <schema:introduction>`.

.. tip::

   There is a Slack channel #ext-schema on `typo3.slack.com
   <https://typo3.slack.com/>`_ for questions, suggestions, feedback, etc.


.. _vocabulary:

The schema.org vocabulary
=========================

The schema.org vocabulary is evolving, approx. every 2-3 months a new version
is `released <https://schema.org/docs/releases.html>`_. The TYPO3 extensions are
updated when changes are made to the according vocabulary. The classes for the
type models and view helpers are generated by the `schema-generator
<https://github.com/brotkrueml/schema-generator>`_ library.


.. _release-management:

Release management
==================

This extension uses `semantic versioning <https://semver.org/>`_ which
basically means for you, that

* Bugfix updates (e.g. 1.0.0 => 1.0.1) just includes small bug fixes or security
  relevant stuff without breaking changes.
* Minor updates (e.g. 1.0.0 => 1.1.0) includes new features and smaller tasks
  without breaking changes.
* Major updates (e.g. 1.0.0 => 2.0.0) breaking changes which can be
  refactorings, features or bug fixes.
